feat(paper): working with L^p functions (#554)
fpvandoorn/carleson: paper/main.tex

The process of generalisation revealed that this abstraction is also useful on its own: previously, many proofs in mathlib involved converting between norms taking values in $\real$ or $\nnreal$; using enorms provides a useful alternative. At the same time, it illustrates how the right abstractions can avoid duplicating work, while providing a useful clarification to mathematics.

\subsection{Working with $L^p$ functions}\label{subsec:Lp}

> % shorter version would start with

Author: Depending on overall lengths, I'm equally happy to go with the short or long version.

% Experience in this project has demonstrated that working with $L^p$ functions as actual functions (using \lean{MemLp}) as opposed to their equivalence classes (\lean{MeasureTheory.Lp}) is much more ergonomic.
Working with $L^p$ functions presents a design choice: should one work with members of $L^p$ space (i.e., equivalence classes of functions up to almost everywhere equality, \lean{MeasureTheory.Lp}), or work with representatives (\lean{MemLp}) instead?

> The mathematical difference is very small: virtually all operations in the project respesct a.e.\ equality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The mathematical difference is very small: virtually all operations in the project respect a.e.\ equality.
```

> Formalisation ergonomics, however, are greatly different: working with equivalence classes is much more cumbersome, as identities on the level of representatives only hold almost everywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formalization ergonomics, however, are greatly different: working with equivalence classes is much more cumbersome, as identities on the level of representatives only hold almost everywhere.
```

(For example, $(f+g)x = f x + g x$ holds on the nose for actual functions; for representatives of $\tilde{f},\tilde{g}$ and $\tilde{f}+\tilde{g}\in L^p$, a priori this only holds for almost every $x$.)

> While the \lean{filter_upwards} tactic simplifies reducing results form almost every to every $x$, these details add up: it is easiest to omit the passage entirely by working with functions in $L^p$ (i.e., with \lean{MemLp} directly).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the \lean{filter_upwards} tactic simplifies reducing results from almost every to every $x$, these details add up: it is easiest to omit the passage entirely by working with functions in $L^p$ (i.e., with \lean{MemLp} directly).
```

> % is this true? is this useful to say? has this been observed already?

Author: ```suggestion
% is this useful to say? could be removed
```

> Incidentally, many more lemmas in mathlib are stated for \lean{MemLp} than for \lean{Lp}: this underscores this choice.

Author: ```suggestion
Incidentally, lemmas in Mathlib are mostly stated for \lean{MemLp} instead of \lean{Lp}: this underscores this choice.
```

> Incidentally, many more lemmas in mathlib are stated for \lean{MemLp} than for \lean{Lp}: this underscores this choice.

Reviewer: I am not sure how to check the numbers comparison. Can we refer to any specific lemmas for `MemLp` that we are using in Carleson that do not have an `Lp` analogue in Mathlib?

Reviewer 2: To back this up, you can search in Mathlib for occurrences of `Lp` (right-click: Find All References - this gives actual references, and doesn't do string search) gives ~360 results and for `MemLp` 660.

Author: I have tweaked the phrasing... and am not sure how to easily check for a lemma we use without Lp analogue. I could try comparing loogle output, but this feels all a bit tedious. How much do we care?

Reviewer: Let's leave it for now - we could always include this later if we really want to.

% Does this have other reasons, such as transitioning between different function properties?

> This relates well with the use of enorms (\ref{subsec:enorm}): \lean{Lp E p µ} as a normed space requires functions with codomain in a Banach space; this excludes e.g.\ $\ennreal$ which does not posess a well-behaved subtraction operation. Phrasing lemmas using \lean{MemLp} first enables the generalisation to $\ennreal$ in the first place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This relates well with the use of enorms (\ref{subsec:enorm}): \lean{Lp E p µ} as a normed space requires functions with codomain in a Banach space; this excludes e.g.\ $\ennreal$ which does not possess a well-behaved subtraction operation. Phrasing lemmas using \lean{MemLp} first enables the generalization to $\ennreal$ in the first place.
```
(For the second change, we should be consistent in the whole paper).

> This is somewhat similar to the trade-off between bundled and unbundled objects: established common wisdom is that unbundled or partially bundled objects are often better to work with than bundled ones. For instance, a continuous function $f\colon X \to Y$ would usually be formalised as \lean{{f : X → Y} (hf : Continuous f)} instead of the bundled \lean{f : ContinuousMap X Y}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is somewhat similar to the trade-off between bundled and unbundled objects: established common wisdom is that unbundled or partially bundled objects are often better to work with than bundled ones. For instance, a continuous function $f\colon X \to Y$ would usually be formalized as \lean{{f : X → Y} (hf : Continuous f)} instead of the bundled \lean{f : ContinuousMap X Y}.
```
